Curriculum Vitae of Karim Shamsasenjan
Last update: 2023 Jan.

Personal details:
Name and Surename:
Karim Shamsasenjan
Permanent Address
6/2  Machstarsse 8-10 1020 Vienna
Date of birth:
1974 August 29
Place of birth:
Tabriz/Iran
Present position
Associated Professor (2013 to now), Biochemistry and Clinical Laboratory
Dep., Tabriz University of Medical Science, Tabriz-Iran
Phone number:
+636506660575
https://www.linkedin.com/in/karim-shamsasenjan-5256406/
k.sh.asenajn@gmail.com

Research and Working Experiences:
1. Head of Biochemistry and clinical laboratory Dep. (2022 to Now) Department of
Biochemistry and clinical laboratory, Tabriz University of Medical Science, Tabriz, Iran
2. Deputy of Eduacation, Medical Faculty of Tabriz medical University
3. High Technical Counsellor of the Iranian National Blood Transfusion Organization (2019 to
Now)
4. Deputy of Technical and new Technology of the Iranian Blood Transfusion Organization
(2015 to 2019)
As the deputy of technical and new technologies at the Iranian Blood Transfusion
Organization, my primary responsibility was to coordinate technical and new technologyrelated activities of the organization. This included developing and monitoring strategies
for blood and plasma production across the country, overseeing technical operations of 31
provincial transfusion headquarters, leading the design and implementation of new national
transfusion-related projects, directing the technical headquarter, donor recruitment
headquarters, hemovigilance headquarters, innovation and new technologies center,
national cord blood stem-cell bank, and national bone marrow stem-cell donor registry. In
addition, I was in charge of overseeing technical audits and inspections and approving
technical SOPs.
3. Managing Director of East Azarbaijan provincial Blood Transfusion Headquarter (2013 to
2015)
As the managing director of the East Azerbaijan Provincial Blood Transfusion Headquarter,
I was responsible for managing and monitoring all technical and logistical activities related
to blood collection, donor recruitment, specific and conventional plasma collection,
hemovigilance, and other related activities within the provincial transfusion headquarter.

5. Qualified Person of East Azerbaijan Provincial Blood Transfusion Headquarters (2011 to
2013)
•

6.Quality Manager of c (2009 to
2011)

7. Full-Time Assistant Professor (2009 August to August 2013) (Paralel to excutive title and responsibitities in East Azerbaijan Provincial Blood Transfusion Headquarters)
Department of Haematology, High Institute for Education and Research
in Transfusion Medicine, Tehran, Iran
Teaching theoretical and practical hematology and immune-hematology and Clinical
courses for Graduate Haematology Students

8. Fulltime Lecturer (2001 May to 2005 May)
Department of Medical Laboratory Technology, Health and Para-Medical Faculty, Qazvin
University of Medical Science, Bahonar Boulevard, Qazvin, IRAN

Educational Qualification:
Ph.D. Bio-Signal Analysis Dep. Graduate School of Medicine, Yamaguchi University, Japan.
October 2005- March 2009
• Supervisor: Prof. Michio.M. Kawano from Bio-Signal Analysis Dep., Graduate School of
Medicine, Yamaguchi University, Japan.
• Thesis title: “CD33 aberrant expression mechanism in myeloma cell and IL6 effect in its
downregulation”
Master of Science from Haematology and Blood Banking Dep. High Institute for Education and
Research in Transfusion Medicine, Tehran, Iran January 1998- January 2001
Bachelor of Science from Medical Laboratory Technology Dep. Para-Medical Faculty of Medical
University of Tabriz, Tabriz, Iran. January 1994- January 1998

Research summary:
My research vision focuses on understanding the various aspects of stem cell biology, particularly
Mesenchymal Stem Cells (MSCs). Specifically, my research has centered around investigating the
biological impact of MSCs and their derivatives on regulating bone marrow and hematopoiesis. In
conjunction with this, I have also explored the immune-modulatory effects of MSCs, as it pertains
to their importance in bone marrow transplantation, and the different conditional parameters that
impact their functionality.
Moreover, I have endeavored to optimize MSC proliferation and differentiation in a variety of
culture systems, including innovative approaches such as 3D cultures models utilizing nanofibers
and alginate beads, as well as using a new external stirred bioreactor.
Having published over 82 original research and review papers, most of which I corresponded with,
I have developed a robust and longstanding record of achievement in stem cell research in the last
10 years, which can be further explored through my Google Scholar page.
My educational background is anchored by a Ph.D. from Yamaguchi University in Cellular Signal
Transduction under the tutelage of Professor Michio M Kawano, a renowned name in the Multiple
Myeloma field. During this period, I focused on the cellular signaling analysis of Multiple Myeloma
biology with my primary project centered around understanding the impact of IL-6 on CD33 aberrant
expression mechanism in myeloma cells. Additional projects that I worked on included researching
the role of various cytokines/chemokines in human myeloma cells, investigating the significance of
Galactin-1 in myeloma, and analyzing the apoptotic effect of Baicalin on myeloma cells. These
research efforts led to published papers in peer-reviewed, international journals and have been
presented at various international conferences.

skills:
• Research: Strong background in Transfusion Medicine, Regenerative Medicine, Stem Cell Biology,
and Cancer Biology. Skilled in designing studies, analyzing data, and publishing research.
Blood and Plasma Service: Skilled in blood banking, donor recruitment, plasma collection, and
hemovigilance. Experienced in managing blood transfusion logistics and technical operations.
• GMP (Good Manufacturing Practice): Expertise in operating biological product GMP facilities,
ensuring regulatory compliance and high-quality manufacturing standards.
• Quality Assurance: Proficient in developing quality systems, conducting audits, and ensuring GMP
adherence.
• Pharmaceutical Regulatory Affairs: Knowledgeable in biological regulatory affairs, strategy
development, submissions, and compliance with global regulations.
• Audits and Inspections: Experienced in technical audits and inspections, identifying compliance
issues, and implementing corrective actions.
• Teaching and Mentoring: Effective in teaching Hematology, Blood Transfusion Science, GMP,
Regulatory Affairs, and Clinical subjects. Experienced in mentoring and supervising graduate
research.
• Communication and Leadership: Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Strong
leadership abilities in team management, activity coordination, and project direction.
• Problem Solving: Proven ability to resolve complex technical and operational issues efficiently, with
strong analytical and critical thinking skills.


Technical Proficiency:
Cell and tissue culture: Isolation and culture of primary hematopoietic stem cell from bone
marrow aspiration sample and cord blood, iPSC induction, Isolation and culture of primary
mesenchymal stem cell from different sources, including bone marrow, cord, adipose tissue,
amniotic membrane, Warton jelly and etc. Differentiation induction of HSCs and
mesenchymal stem cells to different lineages. Culture and preservation of different cancer
and normal cell lines,
Animal handling: Rats/Mice
In vitro studies: Evaluation of cell proliferation, cell cycle study, mineralization assay,
collagenation, alkaline phosphatase activity and anti-resorptive activity in cancer and primary
cells. Anticancer activity including nuclear apoptosis, MMP reduction, DNA fragmentation,
Annexin V/FITC, ROS generation and different caspase molecule estimation of promising
anticancer agents in different primary and cancer cell lines, ELISA assay
Molecular analysis: Isolation and estimation of genomic DNA/RNA, cDNA synthesis, PCR
amplification, Restriction digestion, carried out agarose and polyacrylamide gel
electrophoresis, quantitative real-time PCR of expression analysis of specific genes and
apoptotic markers of primary and cancer cell lines. Estimation of pro-apototic and antiapototic markers of primary and cancer cells and immunoblot analysis of different protein
markers in cells.
Cell signalling: Cell culture and stimulation for cell signal analysis, protein extraction, and
estimation, nuclear extraction, SDS-PAGE electrophoresis, Western blot, Immunoblotting
using specific antibodies, Gel Shift assay (EMSA) , ChIP Assay, Confocal microscopy
Flow-cytometry analysis: Flow cytometry analysis of extracellular and intracellular markers
in primary and cancer cell lines, cell cycle analysis, mitochondrial activity analysis, cell
sorting
Gene manipulation techniques: Isolation and identification of antibiotic-sensitive bacteria,
maintenance of microbiological strains, plasmid isolation from microbial cells, cloning and
transformation, PCR product and plasmid purification, plasmid cloning, mammalian cell
transfection, Neculofection, Lentiviral and Retroviral Transduction using different packaging
systems, shRNA/siRNA design and transfection
Bioinformatics and computer skills: Knowledge of computational and statistical analysis
of biological systems by using software viz. SPSS, and GraphPad Prism, BLAST, Primer design using bioinformatics tools. Python programming an simulation.


Publications:
Google scholar profile link:
https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=CK8hNBUAAAAJ&view_op=
list_works&sortby=pubdate


Conference abstracts/presentation:
I published over 30 abstracts in international and national conferences

Associations:
1. Member of the Iranian National Scientific Board of Experimental Hematology and the Blood Banking
2. Secretary of the Scientific Association of Blood Transfusion Medicine of Iran
3. Member of Iranian Stem cell research network
4. Member of Iranian Medical Council
5. Member of Japanese Hematology Association

Language proficiency:
1. Azeri: Native language, fluent in both spoken and written forms.
2. Persian: Native official language, proficient in both spoken and written forms.
3. English: Expert proficiency in both spoken and written forms, with excellent communication
skills.
4. Turkish: Fluent in both spoken and written forms, capable of engaging in conversations and
understanding complex concepts.
5. Japanese: lower- intermediate proficiency (Just spoken) 
6. German: Currently intensively learning German, actively improving language proficiency


9


